report.md, before:

# The zkKYC Solution Concept

# System Overview


# Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) Using Hyperledger Aries

# Zero Knowledge Proof (ZKP) with zk-SNARKs

## zk-SNARK Fundamentals
### What are zk-SNARKs?
___TODO: FROM MID-TERM REPORT___
### Choosing a Proving System – Groth16 or PLONK?

### Implementing zk-SNARKs in the Project
In our project, we define zk-SNARK constraints in the form of a circuit using the _circom language_, and then generate the witness and proof using _SnarkJS_.

build ... setup --> ... phase 2 ... -> **verification key** (referred later)

## ZKP Workflow for zkKYC
In this section, we will illustrate the zero knowledge proof workflow using the following scenario:

- Issuer has a public DID `did_i` and has a key pair (`pub_i`, `priv_i`).
- Holder generates a peer DID `did_hi` to interact with Issuer.
- Verifier has a public DID `did_v`.
- Holder generates a peer DID `did_hv` to interact with Verifier.
- Government has a key pair (`pub_g`, `priv_g`).

Before the zkKYC process, the Holder has already registered with the Issuer. That is to say, the Issuer has the binding `{ did: "did_hi", real_name: "Evil Holder", passport_no: "A12345678" }` in its database.
 

__1. Issuer signs the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)`.__

When the Holder requests a KYC credential, the Issuer signs the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)` with its private key `priv_i`, and sends the signature `sig_i_hi` to the Holder in the credential.
This conveys that the Holder is a recognized customer of the Issuer.

__2. Holder generates the zkKYC token and proof for the Verifier.__

When the Holder registers a business with the Verifier, the Holder generates a zkKYC token and proof for the specific Verifier.

To generate the zkKYC token, the Holder inputs `did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`, `sig_i_hi`, `pub_i`, `pub_g` into the zkKYC token generation circuit. The circuit will perform the following steps:

- Verify `(did_i, did_hi)` with `pub_i` and `sig_i_hi`.
- Encrypt `(did_i, did_hi, did_hv, did_v)` with `pub_g` to obtain the _circuit output_, `encryptedPayload`.
- Include `did_hv`, `did_v`, `pub_i` and `pub_g` as _public inputs_.
- Generate a _proof_ for the public inputs and the circuit output.

Then, the Holder sends public inputs, output and proof to the Verifier. These can be regarded as the zkKYC token and proof.

__3. Verifier verifies the zkKYC token and proof.__

When the Verifier receives the information from the Holder, it checks the following:

- Verify the public inputs and output with the proof using the verification key of the circuit, to ensure the enclosed information is valid.
- Check the public inputs `did_hv` and `did_v` to ensure that the zkKYC token is intended for the Verifier.
- Check the public input `pub_i` to ensure that the Holder is registered with a _recognized_ Issuer.
- Check the public input `pub_g` to ensure that the `encryptedPayload` can be decrypted by the intended Government.

__4. Government decrypts the zkKYC token.__

When the Verifier spots suspicious activities of the Holder identified by `did_hv`, the Verifier reports the `encryptedPayload` to the Government for further investigation.

Government decrypts the `encryptedPayload` with its private key `priv_g`, and obtains the tuple `(did_i, did_hi, did_hv, did_v)`. Then, Government can 
- check that this is the zkKYC token of the suspicious Holder `did_hv` doing business with the reporting Verifier `did_v`, and
- contact the Issuer `did_i` to obtain the Holder's real identity with `did_hi`.

Finally, Issuer can retrieve the Holder's real identity, `{ real_name: "Evil Holder", passport_no: "A12345678" }`, for the Government to take further actions.

## Implementation Details
Now, we are clear about the workflow of the zkKYC process. In this section, we will discuss the implementation details of the workflow.
### DID Encoding
By default, Circom signals are bounded by the field size of the curve, which is a 254-bit prime number.
Therefore, for both convenience and efficiency, we decide to encode the DIDs in the form of an array of 248-bit (31-byte) signals.
So, DIDs length limits will be multiples of 31 bytes, and the _multiple_ is specified by the circuit construction parameter `n248Bits`.


### Signing and Verification with EdDSA
The signing and verification of the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)` is done using EdDSA over the Baby Jubjub curve.

In practice, the signature is created on the _Poseidon Hash_ of the encoded `did_i` and `did_hi` concatenated together. We have chosen the Poseidon hash function in favor of the well-known SHA-256 hash function, because the Poseidon hash function is a set of permutations over a prime field, which makes it more efficient for zk-SNARKs.
[ref:https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5988]

In contrast, the SHA-256 hash function is inefficient in our use case, and it also resulted in a large number of constraints in the circuits according to our experiments.

EdDSA Signing is performed in NodeJS using the _@iden3/js-crypto_ library, and verification is performed in the circuit using the _circomlib_ library.

The EdDSA signature consists of two elements, `R` and `S`. `R` is a point on the curve, and `S` is a scalar. We encode `R` as two 254-bit integers in an array, and `S` as a 254-bit integer.

In summary, the zkKYC token generation circuit takes the following inputs for signature verification:
```circom
signal input didI[248];  // encoded did_i
signal input didHI[248]; // encoded did_hi
signal input pubI[2];    // public key of Issuer
signal input sigS;       // S element of the EdDSA signature
signal input sigR[2];    // R element of the EdDSA signature
```

The circuit execution would fail if the signature is invalid.

### Message Representation in ElGamal Encryption
Before we discuss the encryption and decryption process, we need to clarify the message representation in the ElGamal encryption.

Because we implement ElGamal encryption over the Baby Jubjub curve, what it encrypts is essentially a _point_ on the curve. Therefore, we need a way to represent an arbitrary message with a point on the curve.

An existing solution is to pick a random point on the curve, and subtract the message from its x-coordinate [ref:https://ethresear.ch/t/elgamal-encryption-decryption-and-rerandomization-with-circom-support/8074] to get a `xIncrement` value. Then, the message can be represented by the point and `xIncrement`.

We improved this solution by performing XOR, instead of subtraction, between the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate and the message up to 253 bits, to get a `xmXor` value. Note that we do not utilize all 254 bits of the x-coordinate, because otherwise `xmXor` may overflow the BabyJub curve field size.

In the existing solution, we need to assert that the x-coordinate of the point is greater than the message, which can possibly fail, especially when the message integer is large. In our solution, the encoding can always succeed.

Also, our solution has the advantage that the representing point, which acts as the plaintext in the succeeding ElGamal encryption, can be _uniformly_ chosen at random, while the existing solution cannot as its x-coordinate is lower-bounded by the message. This advantage increases the security level of the entire encryption process.

### Token Encryption and Decryption with ElGamal and AES
This subsection describes how we achieve the public key encryption and decryption of the zkKYC token.

Encryption is performed in the circom circuit so that we can prove the proper encryption of the zkKYC token in the zk-SNARK proof, while decryption is done by the Government in any environment.

Briefly speaking, we first encrypt the payload with AES using a random symmetric key, and then encrypt the symmetric key with ElGamal using the Government's public key.

__AES Encryption__

As mentioned in the previous subsection, plaintext messages in ElGamal encryption are represented by a point and an `aesKeyXmXor` value. As the AES key will be later encrypted with ElGamal, it is input
to the circuit as a point `aesKeyPoint`, and a _public_ input value `aesKeyXmXor`.
Therefore, the first step is to obtain the AES key by XORing the `aesKeyXmXor` value with the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of the point.

The circuit inputs also include the initial vector `iv` for AES, which is a randomly generated array of 128 bits.

After obtaining the AES key, we encrypt the payload (`did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`) with the key and `iv`, into a ciphertext.
The `iv` is then appended to the ciphertext, and the resulting bit array is the `encryptedPayload`.

To encrypt the payload, we use the AES-256-CTR cipher, and the implementation is adapted from _Electron-Labs/aes-circom_ [ref:https://github.com/Electron-Labs/aes-circom], where they implemented the AES-GCM-SIV.

We did not choose AES-GCM-SIV due to its computational complexity, and we do not require the integrity guarantee it provides.
We just use AES-256-CTR circuit in their repository, and we modified it to match the bit endianness we are using in the rest of the project.

__ElGamal Encryption__

After AES encryption, we encrypt the AES key with ElGamal using the Government's public key. 
With the AES key represented by `aesKeyPoint` and `aesKeyXmXor`, we just apply the ElGamal encryption on the `aesKeyPoint`, and output the ElGamal ciphertext represented by two points `c1` and `c2`.

The random number required by ElGamal encryption is taken as an input signal `elGamalR`.

In summary, after the encryption process, the circuit takes the following inputs:
```
signal input didI[n248Bits];  // encoded did_i
signal input didHI[n248Bits]; // encoded did_hi
signal input didHV[n248Bits]; // encoded did_hv
signal input didV[n248Bits];  // encoded did_v
signal input aesKeyPoint[2]; // the point in AES key representation
signal input aesKeyXmXor; // the xmXor value in AES key representation
signal input aesIV[128]; // the 128-bit AES initial vector
signal input govPubKey[2];    // public key of Government
signal input elGamalR; // the random number for ElGamal encryption
```
 and generates the following public information that Government can use to decrypt the zkKYC token:

```javascript
[
    c1X, c1Y,  // circuit output
    c2X, c2Y,  // circuit output
    ...encryptedPayload, // circuit output
    aesKeyXmXor  // circuit public input
]
```

__Decryption Process__

Using the above public information, the Government can decrypt the zkKYC token by the following steps:

- Decrypt `[c1X, c1Y, c2X, c2Y]` with the Government's private key to obtain the AES key point `aesKeyPoint`.
- XOR the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of `aesKeyPoint` with `aesKeyXmXor` to obtain the AES key.
- Decrypt `encryptedPayload` with the AES key to obtain the payload (`did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`).

### Bit Lengths of Components — 248, 253, 254 or 256?
You may have noticed that we use various bit lengths in the project implementation.
Those values are carefully chosen to maximize the security of the system, while avoiding overflow.
In this subsection, we will summarize bit lengths for the components and explain the rationale behind those choices.

Generally, signals in a Circom circuit should be bounded by the finite field that the underlying elliptic curve is defined on.
In our case, the _Baby Jubjub Elliptic Curve_ is defined over the field $F_p$, where $p$ is a _254-bit_ prime number [ref:https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2494].
Given this fact, we define the bit lengths for the following components in the project:

__DID Representation (248 bits):__ A DID is represented by an array of 248-bit unsigned integers. Each integer can be interpreted as a 31-byte string.

__AES Key (253 bits):__ We use a 253-bit key for AES-256 encryption, instead of the standard 256-bit key.
This is because this key will be encoded into a point on the Baby Jubjub curve and an XOR value as discussed in an earlier subsection.
Therefore, as the point coordinate is bounded by a 254-bit number, we need to limit the key size to 253 bits to avoid overflowing the XOR value.

__XOR Value (253 bits):__ The XOR value, named `xmXor`, is used to encode the AES key into a point on the Baby Jubjub curve. It is the result of XORing the 253-bit AES key with the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of the encoding point `aesKeyPoint`.

__ElGamal random value `r` (253 bits):__ The random value `r` is a signal in the ElGamal encryption circuit. Signals are bounded by a 254-bit number. When generating the `r`, however, we use a 253-bit random number to avoid overflowing the signal.

__Baby Jubjub Point (254 bits):__ A point on the Baby Jubjub curve is represented by two 254-bit unsigned integers or buffers.
Public keys, `R` in the EdDSA signature, the encoding point `aesKeyPoint`, "shared secret" `s` in ElGamal encryption, and the `c1` and `c2` of the ElGamal ciphertext are all Baby Jubjub points.

__Private Key (256 bits):__ We use a 32-byte buffer as the private key for the EdDSA signature.
Internally, EdDSA derives a 253-bit scalar from the private key, which is used for the signature generation process.

__Private Key Scalar (253 bits):__ A 253-bit scalar derived according to the Baby Jubjub EdDSA signature scheme. It is also used as the private key for the ElGamal decryption.

__AES Circuit Input (256 bits):__ As the AES-256 algorithm requires the size of the input to be the multiple of the unsigned integer size, we pad input units (integers representing DIDs) to 256 bits with trailing zeros.
The 253-bit AES key is also padded to 256 bits with trailing zeros before inputting into the AES circuit.

### Interfaces and Packaging
The ZKP part of this project is relatively independent of the SSI part. So, we group the ZKP actions by roles and define the interfaces as follows:

---
__Issuer__

`generateKeyPair(privKey?: string) => { priv: string, pub: [string, string] } ` &nbsp; Generate a key pair for the issuer. If `privKey` is provided, the key pair will be derived from the private key. Otherwise, a random private key will be generated.

`signDidRecord(didI: string, didHI: string, privKey: string) => { s: string, r: string[] }` &nbsp; Sign the DID record with the private key.

__Holder__

`generateZkKycProof(didI: string, didHI: string, didHV: string, didV: string, sigS: string, sigR: string[], issuerPubKey: string[], govPubKey: string[]) => { proofJson: string, publicJson: string }` &nbsp; Generate the zkKYC proof and public information, including the encrypted contents and public keys.

__Verifier__

`parsePublic(publicJson: string) => { aesKeyPointCipher: { c1: string[], c2: string[] }, encryptedPayload: string, didHV: string, didV: string, issuerPubKey: string[], govPubKey: string[], aesKeyXmXor: string }` &nbsp; Parse the public information generated by the Holder into an object. The parsed object can be easily read by the Verifier and passed to the government for decryption.

`verifyZkKycProof(proofJson: string, publicJson: string) => boolean` &nbsp; Verify the zkKYC proof and public information to check if the information is valid.

__Government__

`decryptToken(parsedPublic: string, privKey: string) => { didI: string, didHI: string, didHV: string, didV: string }` &nbsp; Decrypt the zkKYC token with the Government's private key to obtain the DIDs in the token.

`generateKeyPair(privKey?: string) => { priv: string, pub: [string, string] } ` &nbsp; Generate a key pair for the issuer. If `privKey` is provided, the key pair will be derived from the private key. Otherwise, a random private key will be generated.

---

These interfaces are packaged into a NodeJS module __zkkyc__ and can be imported into the SSI controller written in NodeJS.
For this method, we strongly suggest using separate _worker threads_ to run the zkKYC actions to avoid blocking other tasks in the SSI controller thread, because the ZKP process is very time-consuming and NodeJS is single-threaded.

We also implemented GRPC services for these interfaces to facilitate the integration with the SSI controller written in other languages. You can start the GRPC server by running `npm run grpc` in the __zkkyc__ directory.

# Requirements Review
Finally, let us review the requirements of the zkKYC solution concept and see how the project meets those requirements.

__No correlating signatures__

This is achieved by including the signature verification process in the ZKP circuit.

# Future Work
__Optimize Implementation__ &nbsp; For simplicity, we did not consider the performance and efficiency of the implementation in this project.
We can identify several areas for optimization:

- Compared to ElGamal encryption, ECDH is more efficient and secure. We can use ECDH to derive the shared secret for symmetrically encrypting the DIDs payload.
- AES-256 encryption results in large circuits. For instance, our circuit uses the plain AES-256-CTR circuit to encrypt just 32 bytes of data, but has more than 120,000 constraints and generates a 21.7MB R1CS file! We should find some _zk-friendly_ alternatives for token symmetric encryption.
- For clearer demonstrations, we used the uncompressed form of Baby Jubjub points in the project (two 254-bit integers). In practice, we can pack a point into one single 255-bit integer to improve efficiency.

__Reconsider Proving Systems__ &nbsp; We use the Groth16 proving system in this project. However, we may want to consider other proving systems in practice, because Groth16 requires a trusted setup for each circuit.
A trusted setup usually involves multiple trusted parties to guarantee the security of the setup. It may not be practical to go through such a process for each circuit.

__Integrate into DeFi Protocols__ &nbsp; This could be the most exciting potential of the project, and has also been discussed in the succeeding zkKYC paper – _zkKYC in DeFi_ [ref:https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/321]. This project can be easily extended to integrate with DeFi protocols, as Circom can generate Solidity smart contracts for proof verification. Then, a DeFi protocol can include the zkKYC verification process in its smart contract, and require users to submit a valid zkKYC proof before they can use the protocol. This will enable DeFi protocols to provide a more trustful and still privacy-preserving service to authenticated users.

# Appendix
## Project Setup
## Project Code Navigation
### Circom & SnarkJS
#### Circuits
#### Services
#### API
#### Scripts

### Hyperledger Aries

Commit message:

report: Future Work: Adapt to a Common Elliptic Curve

report.md, after:

# The zkKYC Solution Concept

# System Overview


# Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) Using Hyperledger Aries

# Zero Knowledge Proof (ZKP) with zk-SNARKs

## zk-SNARK Fundamentals
### What are zk-SNARKs?
___TODO: FROM MID-TERM REPORT___
### Choosing a Proving System – Groth16 or PLONK?

### Implementing zk-SNARKs in the Project
In our project, we define zk-SNARK constraints in the form of a circuit using the _circom language_, and then generate the witness and proof using _SnarkJS_.

build ... setup --> ... phase 2 ... -> **verification key** (referred later)

## ZKP Workflow for zkKYC
In this section, we will illustrate the zero knowledge proof workflow using the following scenario:

- Issuer has a public DID `did_i` and has a key pair (`pub_i`, `priv_i`).
- Holder generates a peer DID `did_hi` to interact with Issuer.
- Verifier has a public DID `did_v`.
- Holder generates a peer DID `did_hv` to interact with Verifier.
- Government has a key pair (`pub_g`, `priv_g`).

Before the zkKYC process, the Holder has already registered with the Issuer. That is to say, the Issuer has the binding `{ did: "did_hi", real_name: "Evil Holder", passport_no: "A12345678" }` in its database.
 

__1. Issuer signs the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)`.__

When the Holder requests a KYC credential, the Issuer signs the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)` with its private key `priv_i`, and sends the signature `sig_i_hi` to the Holder in the credential.
This conveys that the Holder is a recognized customer of the Issuer.

__2. Holder generates the zkKYC token and proof for the Verifier.__

When the Holder registers a business with the Verifier, the Holder generates a zkKYC token and proof for the specific Verifier.

To generate the zkKYC token, the Holder inputs `did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`, `sig_i_hi`, `pub_i`, `pub_g` into the zkKYC token generation circuit. The circuit will perform the following steps:

- Verify `(did_i, did_hi)` with `pub_i` and `sig_i_hi`.
- Encrypt `(did_i, did_hi, did_hv, did_v)` with `pub_g` to obtain the _circuit output_, `encryptedPayload`.
- Include `did_hv`, `did_v`, `pub_i` and `pub_g` as _public inputs_.
- Generate a _proof_ for the public inputs and the circuit output.

Then, the Holder sends public inputs, output and proof to the Verifier. These can be regarded as the zkKYC token and proof.

__3. Verifier verifies the zkKYC token and proof.__

When the Verifier receives the information from the Holder, it checks the following:

- Verify the public inputs and output with the proof using the verification key of the circuit, to ensure the enclosed information is valid.
- Check the public inputs `did_hv` and `did_v` to ensure that the zkKYC token is intended for the Verifier.
- Check the public input `pub_i` to ensure that the Holder is registered with a _recognized_ Issuer.
- Check the public input `pub_g` to ensure that the `encryptedPayload` can be decrypted by the intended Government.

__4. Government decrypts the zkKYC token.__

When the Verifier spots suspicious activities of the Holder identified by `did_hv`, the Verifier reports the `encryptedPayload` to the Government for further investigation.

Government decrypts the `encryptedPayload` with its private key `priv_g`, and obtains the tuple `(did_i, did_hi, did_hv, did_v)`. Then, Government can 
- check that this is the zkKYC token of the suspicious Holder `did_hv` doing business with the reporting Verifier `did_v`, and
- contact the Issuer `did_i` to obtain the Holder's real identity with `did_hi`.

Finally, Issuer can retrieve the Holder's real identity, `{ real_name: "Evil Holder", passport_no: "A12345678" }`, for the Government to take further actions.

## Implementation Details
Now, we are clear about the workflow of the zkKYC process. In this section, we will discuss the implementation details of the workflow.
### DID Encoding
By default, Circom signals are bounded by the field size of the curve, which is a 254-bit prime number.
Therefore, for both convenience and efficiency, we decide to encode the DIDs in the form of an array of 248-bit (31-byte) signals.
So, DIDs length limits will be multiples of 31 bytes, and the _multiple_ is specified by the circuit construction parameter `n248Bits`.


### Signing and Verification with EdDSA
The signing and verification of the tuple `(did_i, did_hi)` is done using EdDSA over the Baby Jubjub curve.

In practice, the signature is created on the _Poseidon Hash_ of the encoded `did_i` and `did_hi` concatenated together. We have chosen the Poseidon hash function in favor of the well-known SHA-256 hash function, because the Poseidon hash function is a set of permutations over a prime field, which makes it more efficient for zk-SNARKs.
[ref:https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5988]

In contrast, the SHA-256 hash function is inefficient in our use case, and it also resulted in a large number of constraints in the circuits according to our experiments.

EdDSA Signing is performed in NodeJS using the _@iden3/js-crypto_ library, and verification is performed in the circuit using the _circomlib_ library.

The EdDSA signature consists of two elements, `R` and `S`. `R` is a point on the curve, and `S` is a scalar. We encode `R` as two 254-bit integers in an array, and `S` as a 254-bit integer.

In summary, the zkKYC token generation circuit takes the following inputs for signature verification:
```circom
signal input didI[248];  // encoded did_i
signal input didHI[248]; // encoded did_hi
signal input pubI[2];    // public key of Issuer
signal input sigS;       // S element of the EdDSA signature
signal input sigR[2];    // R element of the EdDSA signature
```

The circuit execution would fail if the signature is invalid.

### Message Representation in ElGamal Encryption
Before we discuss the encryption and decryption process, we need to clarify the message representation in the ElGamal encryption.

Because we implement ElGamal encryption over the Baby Jubjub curve, what it encrypts is essentially a _point_ on the curve. Therefore, we need a way to represent an arbitrary message with a point on the curve.

An existing solution is to pick a random point on the curve, and subtract the message from its x-coordinate [ref:https://ethresear.ch/t/elgamal-encryption-decryption-and-rerandomization-with-circom-support/8074] to get a `xIncrement` value. Then, the message can be represented by the point and `xIncrement`.

We improved this solution by performing XOR, instead of subtraction, between the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate and the message up to 253 bits, to get a `xmXor` value. Note that we do not utilize all 254 bits of the x-coordinate, because otherwise `xmXor` may overflow the BabyJub curve field size.

In the existing solution, we need to assert that the x-coordinate of the point is greater than the message, which can possibly fail, especially when the message integer is large. In our solution, the encoding can always succeed.

Also, our solution has the advantage that the representing point, which acts as the plaintext in the succeeding ElGamal encryption, can be _uniformly_ chosen at random, while the existing solution cannot as its x-coordinate is lower-bounded by the message. This advantage increases the security level of the entire encryption process.

### Token Encryption and Decryption with ElGamal and AES
This subsection describes how we achieve the public key encryption and decryption of the zkKYC token.

Encryption is performed in the circom circuit so that we can prove the proper encryption of the zkKYC token in the zk-SNARK proof, while decryption is done by the Government in any environment.

Briefly speaking, we first encrypt the payload with AES using a random symmetric key, and then encrypt the symmetric key with ElGamal using the Government's public key.

__AES Encryption__

As mentioned in the previous subsection, plaintext messages in ElGamal encryption are represented by a point and an `aesKeyXmXor` value. As the AES key will be later encrypted with ElGamal, it is input
to the circuit as a point `aesKeyPoint`, and a _public_ input value `aesKeyXmXor`.
Therefore, the first step is to obtain the AES key by XORing the `aesKeyXmXor` value with the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of the point.

The circuit inputs also include the initial vector `iv` for AES, which is a randomly generated array of 128 bits.

After obtaining the AES key, we encrypt the payload (`did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`) with the key and `iv`, into a ciphertext.
The `iv` is then appended to the ciphertext, and the resulting bit array is the `encryptedPayload`.

To encrypt the payload, we use the AES-256-CTR cipher, and the implementation is adapted from _Electron-Labs/aes-circom_ [ref:https://github.com/Electron-Labs/aes-circom], where they implemented the AES-GCM-SIV.

We did not choose AES-GCM-SIV due to its computational complexity, and we do not require the integrity guarantee it provides.
We just use AES-256-CTR circuit in their repository, and we modified it to match the bit endianness we are using in the rest of the project.

__ElGamal Encryption__

After AES encryption, we encrypt the AES key with ElGamal using the Government's public key. 
With the AES key represented by `aesKeyPoint` and `aesKeyXmXor`, we just apply the ElGamal encryption on the `aesKeyPoint`, and output the ElGamal ciphertext represented by two points `c1` and `c2`.

The random number required by ElGamal encryption is taken as an input signal `elGamalR`.

In summary, after the encryption process, the circuit takes the following inputs:
```
signal input didI[n248Bits];  // encoded did_i
signal input didHI[n248Bits]; // encoded did_hi
signal input didHV[n248Bits]; // encoded did_hv
signal input didV[n248Bits];  // encoded did_v
signal input aesKeyPoint[2]; // the point in AES key representation
signal input aesKeyXmXor; // the xmXor value in AES key representation
signal input aesIV[128]; // the 128-bit AES initial vector
signal input govPubKey[2];    // public key of Government
signal input elGamalR; // the random number for ElGamal encryption
```
 and generates the following public information that Government can use to decrypt the zkKYC token:

```javascript
[
    c1X, c1Y,  // circuit output
    c2X, c2Y,  // circuit output
    ...encryptedPayload, // circuit output
    aesKeyXmXor  // circuit public input
]
```

__Decryption Process__

Using the above public information, the Government can decrypt the zkKYC token by the following steps:

- Decrypt `[c1X, c1Y, c2X, c2Y]` with the Government's private key to obtain the AES key point `aesKeyPoint`.
- XOR the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of `aesKeyPoint` with `aesKeyXmXor` to obtain the AES key.
- Decrypt `encryptedPayload` with the AES key to obtain the payload (`did_i`, `did_hi`, `did_hv`, `did_v`).

### Bit Lengths of Components — 248, 253, 254 or 256?
You may have noticed that we use various bit lengths in the project implementation.
Those values are carefully chosen to maximize the security of the system, while avoiding overflow.
In this subsection, we will summarize bit lengths for the components and explain the rationale behind those choices.

Generally, signals in a Circom circuit should be bounded by the finite field that the underlying elliptic curve is defined on.
In our case, the _Baby Jubjub Elliptic Curve_ is defined over the field $F_p$, where $p$ is a _254-bit_ prime number [ref:https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2494].
Given this fact, we define the bit lengths for the following components in the project:

__DID Representation (248 bits):__ A DID is represented by an array of 248-bit unsigned integers. Each integer can be interpreted as a 31-byte string.

__AES Key (253 bits):__ We use a 253-bit key for AES-256 encryption, instead of the standard 256-bit key.
This is because this key will be encoded into a point on the Baby Jubjub curve and an XOR value as discussed in an earlier subsection.
Therefore, as the point coordinate is bounded by a 254-bit number, we need to limit the key size to 253 bits to avoid overflowing the XOR value.

__XOR Value (253 bits):__ The XOR value, named `xmXor`, is used to encode the AES key into a point on the Baby Jubjub curve. It is the result of XORing the 253-bit AES key with the lowest 253 bits of the x-coordinate of the encoding point `aesKeyPoint`.

__ElGamal random value `r` (253 bits):__ The random value `r` is a signal in the ElGamal encryption circuit. Signals are bounded by a 254-bit number. When generating the `r`, however, we use a 253-bit random number to avoid overflowing the signal.

__Baby Jubjub Point (254 bits):__ A point on the Baby Jubjub curve is represented by two 254-bit unsigned integers or buffers.
Public keys, `R` in the EdDSA signature, the encoding point `aesKeyPoint`, "shared secret" `s` in ElGamal encryption, and the `c1` and `c2` of the ElGamal ciphertext are all Baby Jubjub points.

__Private Key (256 bits):__ We use a 32-byte buffer as the private key for the EdDSA signature.
Internally, EdDSA derives a 253-bit scalar from the private key, which is used for the signature generation process.

__Private Key Scalar (253 bits):__ A 253-bit scalar derived according to the Baby Jubjub EdDSA signature scheme. It is also used as the private key for the ElGamal decryption.

__AES Circuit Input (256 bits):__ As the AES-256 algorithm requires the size of the input to be the multiple of the unsigned integer size, we pad input units (integers representing DIDs) to 256 bits with trailing zeros.
The 253-bit AES key is also padded to 256 bits with trailing zeros before inputting into the AES circuit.

### Interfaces and Packaging
The ZKP part of this project is relatively independent of the SSI part. So, we group the ZKP actions by roles and define the interfaces as follows:

---
__Issuer__

`generateKeyPair(privKey?: string) => { priv: string, pub: [string, string] } ` &nbsp; Generate a key pair for the issuer. If `privKey` is provided, the key pair will be derived from the private key. Otherwise, a random private key will be generated.

`signDidRecord(didI: string, didHI: string, privKey: string) => { s: string, r: string[] }` &nbsp; Sign the DID record with the private key.

__Holder__

`generateZkKycProof(didI: string, didHI: string, didHV: string, didV: string, sigS: string, sigR: string[], issuerPubKey: string[], govPubKey: string[]) => { proofJson: string, publicJson: string }` &nbsp; Generate the zkKYC proof and public information, including the encrypted contents and public keys.

__Verifier__

`parsePublic(publicJson: string) => { aesKeyPointCipher: { c1: string[], c2: string[] }, encryptedPayload: string, didHV: string, didV: string, issuerPubKey: string[], govPubKey: string[], aesKeyXmXor: string }` &nbsp; Parse the public information generated by the Holder into an object. The parsed object can be easily read by the Verifier and passed to the government for decryption.

`verifyZkKycProof(proofJson: string, publicJson: string) => boolean` &nbsp; Verify the zkKYC proof and public information to check if the information is valid.

__Government__

`decryptToken(parsedPublic: string, privKey: string) => { didI: string, didHI: string, didHV: string, didV: string }` &nbsp; Decrypt the zkKYC token with the Government's private key to obtain the DIDs in the token.

`generateKeyPair(privKey?: string) => { priv: string, pub: [string, string] } ` &nbsp; Generate a key pair for the issuer. If `privKey` is provided, the key pair will be derived from the private key. Otherwise, a random private key will be generated.

---

These interfaces are packaged into a NodeJS module __zkkyc__ and can be imported into the SSI controller written in NodeJS.
For this method, we strongly suggest using separate _worker threads_ to run the zkKYC actions to avoid blocking other tasks in the SSI controller thread, because the ZKP process is very time-consuming and NodeJS is single-threaded.

We also implemented GRPC services for these interfaces to facilitate the integration with the SSI controller written in other languages. You can start the GRPC server by running `npm run grpc` in the __zkkyc__ directory.

# Requirements Review
Finally, let us review the requirements of the zkKYC solution concept and see how the project meets those requirements.

__No correlating signatures__

This is achieved by including the signature verification process in the ZKP circuit.

# Future Work
__Optimize Implementation__ &nbsp; For simplicity, we did not consider the performance and efficiency of the implementation in this project.
We can identify several areas for optimization:

- Compared to ElGamal encryption, ECDH is more efficient and secure. We can use ECDH to derive the shared secret for symmetrically encrypting the DIDs payload.
- AES-256 encryption results in large circuits. For instance, our circuit uses the plain AES-256-CTR circuit to encrypt just 32 bytes of data, but has more than 120,000 constraints and generates a 21.7MB R1CS file! We should find some _zk-friendly_ alternatives for token symmetric encryption.
- For clearer demonstrations, we used the uncompressed form of Baby Jubjub points in the project (two 254-bit integers). In practice, we can pack a point into one single 255-bit integer to improve efficiency.

__Adapt to a Common Elliptic Curve__ &nbsp; We use the Baby Jubjub curve in this project, which is a special curve designed for zkSNARKs and the only reliable curve available at the moment. However, it is not widely used in practice. We may want to consider adapting the project to a more common elliptic curve, such as the Ed25519 curve.
As a prerequisite, this will need an _efficient_ circom implementation of the curve.

__Reconsider Proving Systems__ &nbsp; We use the Groth16 proving system in this project. However, we may want to consider other proving systems in practice, because Groth16 requires a trusted setup for each circuit.
A trusted setup usually involves multiple trusted parties to guarantee the security of the setup. It may not be practical to go through such a process for each circuit.

__Integrate into DeFi Protocols__ &nbsp; This could be the most exciting potential of the project, and has also been discussed in the succeeding zkKYC paper – _zkKYC in DeFi_ [ref:https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/321]. This project can be easily extended to integrate with DeFi protocols, as Circom can generate Solidity smart contracts for proof verification. Then, a DeFi protocol can include the zkKYC verification process in its smart contract, and require users to submit a valid zkKYC proof before they can use the protocol. This will enable DeFi protocols to provide a more trustful and still privacy-preserving service to authenticated users.

# Appendix
## Project Setup
## Project Code Navigation
### Circom & SnarkJS
#### Circuits
#### Services
#### API
#### Scripts

### Hyperledger Aries
